PR: Add Plots pane documentation for Spyder 4 (#111)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/plots.rst

#####
Plots
#####

> The **Plots** pane shows the figures and images generated in the :doc:`editor`, :doc:`console` or the :doc:`variableexplorer` during your session, allowing you to interact with them in several ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Plots** pane shows the figures and images generated in the :doc:`editor`, :doc:`ipythonconsole` or the :doc:`variableexplorer` during your session, allowing you to interact with them in several ways.
```

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-execution.gif

Reviewer: I would prefer if this was a bit more representative, showing multiple plots already present and then running your code to generate a new one. This better shows the purpose and basic capabilities of the pane, which is appropriate for a hero GIF.

Reviewer 2: I agree with this suggestion.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder main window showing execution for the Plots pane

|

> The figures shown in the Plots pane are those associated with the currently active :guilable:`Console` tab; if you switch consoles, the list of plots displayed (or none at all, if a new console) will change accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figures shown in the Plots pane are those associated with the currently active :guilabel:`Console` tab; if you switch consoles, the list of plots displayed (or none at all, if a new console) will change accordingly.
```

This means that when switching to another console, the plots from your previous one will disappear, showing you a blank pane.

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-switch.gif

Reviewer: This is both spatially large and temporally long for a GIF, producing a large 1.7 MB file. Switching between two consoles with existing plots would be much faster and simpler to show this, and you can reduce the spatial size by reducing the width to 500/480px and reducing the height of the panes. Or at the very least further speed up/cut out the various delays and intermediate steps not intrinsically linked with the core behavior behind demonstrated.

Reviewer 2: > Switching between two consoles with existing plots would be much faster and simpler to show this

I agree. I also suggest that each console has an uneven number of plots on each one (e.g. two in one and 5 in the other), to highlight even more this point.

> and you can reduce the spatial size by reducing the width to 500/480px and reducing the height of the panes

I agree with this too.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane and console showing switching consoles

|

============
Options Menu
============

The options menu in the top right of the :guilabel:`Plots` pane offers several options to customize your plots visualization.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mute inline plotting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Mute inline plotting` option is enabled by default, preventing the figures from also appearing in the Console. 
If you deactivate this option, the plots are generated will appear in the Console every time you run your code.

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-inline-plotting.gif

Reviewer: To really show this, you should run it once with inline plotting off first, then disable and run again.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane and console showing plots in the console

|

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Show plot outline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The :guilabel:`Show plot outline` option shows an outline box surrounding the area of the plot, with which you can export the plots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Show plot outline` option, off by default, shows a thin stroke surrounding the area of the figure area, which will also appear in the exported images.
```

* Avoid lots of repetition
* Improve clarity, descriptiveness, phrasing and grammar

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-outline.gif

Reviewer: You can cut out perhaps a second of the pause at the end to reduce gif size while not taking away much value

Reviewer 2: Perhaps only half second to that people can appreciate the outline's change.

Reviewer: Okay, sure

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane showing a plot's outline

|

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fit plots to window
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The :guilabel:`Fit plots to Window` option is also enabled by default making the figures' size to match the size of the pane's window. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Fit plots to Window` option, also enabled by default, sizes the figures to match the pane. 
```

* FIx grammar issues
* Simplify and clarify phrasing
* Eliminate repetition and redundancy

> Disabling it will allow you to zoom the plots in or out using the Zoom buttons at the top of the pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabling it will display plots at their native size, and allow you use the zoom buttons at the top of the pane to scale them manually.
```

* Improve descriptiveness, clarity and accuracy
* Reduce redundancy and fix style issues

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-zoom.gif

Reviewer: This is good, but you can reduce the pauses (e.g. before and after scrolling) to save time and space, since it is the action shown that's important, not the result

Reviewer 2: For me this one is fine as it is.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder main window showing plots zoom

|

===============
Toolbar Options
===============

> On top of the Plots pane you will find the toolbar, which provides several useful features that allow you to interact with the plots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toolbar at the top of the Plots pane provides several useful features that allow you to interact with your figures.
```

* Redundancy/repetition
* Verbosity
* Phrasing/clarity

> For example, you can navigate through the plots in the pane visible in the thumbnails by using the arrows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can cycle sequentially through the plot list with the forward and back arrows.
```

* Eliminate verbosity, repetition and redundancy
* Improve clarity and phrasing
* Change verbiage to better reflect the potential usefulness of the arrows over just clicking

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-arrows.gif

Reviewer: This is the second largest GIF here (at 1.1 MB) and doesn't need to be anywhere near this long. Just scroll down a couple plots and back up one and the viewer gets the idea, scrolling through every plot and back just uses up time, space and adds unnecessary complexity.

Reviewer 2: > Just scroll down a couple plots and back up one

I agree with this.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder main window showing plot navigation using arrows.

|

> You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNGs by clicking the "Save" icon in the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNGs by clicking the respective icons in the toolbar.
```

* Improve clarity

Icon names should either be guilabels or made clear as references, not quoted. I would advise the latter.

> You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNGs by clicking the respective icons in the toolbar.

Reviewer 2: I think they can also be saved as SVGs. Please confirm if that's the @juanis2112.

Reviewer: Okay, but is this really worth going to all the effort to show and explain, especially since this is otherwise already done?

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-save.gif

Reviewer: This one seems good to me, although perhaps a second at the beginning where nothing happens could be cut out.

Reviewer 2: I have the same opinion about this one as CAM.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder plots pane showing saving a plot.

|

> Additionally, if you want to use a plot in another document, you can click the “Copy to Clipboard” button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you want to use a figure in another document, you can click the copy to clipboard button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.
```

* Repetition
* Ibid as above

> Additionally, if you want to use a figure in another document, you can click the copy to clipboard button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should enclose `copy to clipboard` in quotes here?

> Additionally, if you want to use a figure in another document, you can click the copy to clipboard button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you want to use a figure in another document, you can click the "copy to clipboard" button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.
```

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-copy.gif

Reviewer: Again, this one seems good, though perhaps a second of pause time at the end could be cut.

Reviewer 2: Right, that's true. There's too much pause time at the end.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder Plots pane showing pasting plot in LibreOffice.

|

> Finally, you can use the "Remove" buttons in the Toolbar to delete one or all the plots in the pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can use the remove and remove all buttons in the toolbar to clear plots from the list.
```

* Repetition/redundancy
* Clarity
* Ibid

> Finally, you can use the remove and remove all buttons in the toolbar to clear plots from the list.

Reviewer 2: Again, perhaps we should enclose `remove` and `remove all` in quotes here?

Reviewer: This should be resolved.

> Finally, you can use the remove and remove all buttons in the toolbar to clear plots from the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can use the "remove" and "remove all" buttons in the toolbar to clear plots from the list.
```

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-remove.gif

Reviewer: Good, though pauses before hitting the remove button can be cut.

Reviewer: Also, who picked those plots? They suck.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with this one.

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder plots pane showing pasting plot in LibreOffice.

|

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Related components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * :doc:`variableexplorer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :doc:`ipythonconsole`
* :doc:`variableexplorer`
```

You should definitely include the Console here, since it is much more linked to the plots pane than the Variable Explorer is.

> #################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####
```

Plots

> #################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####
```

The **Plots** pane shows the figures and images generated in the Editor, Console or the Variable Explorer during your session, allowing you to interact with them in several ways.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-execution.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder main window showing execution for Plot's Pane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder main window showing execution for the Plots pane
```

|

> The plots in the Plot's plane depend on the Console you are working on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plots in the Plots pane depend on the Console you are working on. 
```

This means that when switching to another console, the plots from your previous one will disappear, showing you a blank pane.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-switch.gif
   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane and console showing switching consoles

|

> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
============
```

Options Menu

> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
============
```

The options menu in the top right of the :guilabel:`Plots` pane offers several ways to customize how your plots are displayed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mute inline plotting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Mute inline plotting` option is enabled by default, preventing your plots from appearing in the Console.
If you deactivate this option, figures will display in both the Plots pane and the Console.

> .. image:: images/plots/plots-inline-plotting.gif

Reviewer 2: For me I think it's not so clear what's happening in this gif because the same figure is generated twice.

So I have a suggestion to improve it: the file in the editor should generate two figures in two separate cells. After running the first cell, you woild deactivate "Mute inline plotting" and run the second one. I think that way it'd easier for the reader to grasp what's happening after that option is deactivated.

Reviewer: I thought about that but that just adds a lot of extra complexity we'd have to explain (e.g. code cells, etc) and I don't think any clarity benefit is worth the potential confusion, never mind having to redo it again when I thought we agreed what we wanted Jaunita to do.

Reviewer 2: > I thought about that but that just adds a lot of extra complexity we'd have to explain (e.g. code cells, etc) and I don't think any clarity benefit is worth the potential confusion

Well, I think there's no need to explain what code cells are. Just that the file generates two plots and for that it'd need to have two cells.

> never mind having to redo it again when I thought we agreed what we wanted Jaunita to do.

Yeah, I just noticed this detail after seeing the gif for the second time. I really think it'd help to improve the meaning of this gif.

@juanis2112, what do you think?

Reviewer: Ah okay; it doesn't have to be code cells, it can just be running lines through a selection. I did notice the same thing when I saw it, but I'm just not sure if its worth the time and complexity cost to change it at this point...I'm not blocking my approve on it at least.

Reviewer 2: > it doesn't have to be code cells, it can just be running lines through a selection

Ok, that's true too.

> I'm not blocking my approve on it at least.

If @juanis2112 thinks it's fine as it is, then I'll approve and merge. That's why I asked her opinion above.

Reviewer 2: So @juanis2112 told me she thinks having two images in this gif would be more confusing than having just one (i.e. as it is right now).

Since both of you agree on that, let's leave this gif without changes.

Reviewer: :+1:

   :align: center
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane and console showing plots in the console

|

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Show plot outline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Show plot outline` option shows an outline box surrounding the area of the plot, with which you can export the plots.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-outline.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder's plots pane showing plot's outline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder's plots pane showing a plot's outline
```

|

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fit plots to window
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Fit plots to Window` option is also enabled by default making the figures' size to match the size of the pane's window. 
Disabling it will allow you to zoom the plots in or out using the Zoom buttons at the top of the pane.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-zoom.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder main window showing plot's zoom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder main window showing plots zoom
```

|

> ====================
> Toolbar Options
> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===============
Toolbar Options
===============
```

> On top of the Plots pane you will find the Toolbar, which provides several useful features that allow you interact with the plots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of the Plots pane you will find the toolbar, which provides several useful features that allow you to interact with the plots. 
```

For example, you can navigate through the plots in the pane visible in the thumbnails by using the arrows.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-arrows.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder main window showing plot's navigation using arrows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder main window showing plot navigation using arrows.
```

|

> You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNG's by clicking the "Save" icon in the Toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNGs by clicking the "Save" icon in the toolbar.
```

.. image:: images/plots/plots-save.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder plot's pane showing saving a plot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder plots pane showing saving a plot.
```

|

Additionally, if you want to use a plot in another document, you can click the “Copy to Clipboard” button and paste your plot wherever you want, such as a word processor.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-copy.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder plot's pane showing pasting plot in libreOffice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder Plots pane showing pasting plot in LibreOffice.
```

|

Finally, you can use the "Remove" buttons in the Toolbar to delete one or all the plots in the pane.

.. image:: images/plots/plots-remove.gif
   :align: center

>    :alt: Spyder plot's pane showing pasting plot in libreOffice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder plots pane showing pasting plot in LibreOffice.
```

|

> You can also save one or all the plots in the pane as PNGs or SVGs, (depending on your set up)  by clicking the respective icons in the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also save one or all the plots in the pane to file(s) by clicking the respective save/save all icons in the toolbar.
Plots are rendered and saved as PNG by default, but SVG can be selected as an option under :menuselection:`Preferences --> IPython console --> Graphics --> Inline backend --> Format`.
```
